1- First article 

we'll need research material let's get it, 

ok so we have everything for doritos.
I am listening to a podcast in the midst of looking at the research material I have downloaded.
I'll write some about what goes throught my mind as I listen to it.

literally the guy talking {darkhorse podcast with daniel schmachtenberger @44.30}
about discipline and the different reward circuit comparing social media and reading a study
I am here listening to him speak about that whilst reading the wikipedia article for maltodextrin
so maltodextrin eh:
it is a polysacharide derived from vegetable startch using partial hydrolisis.
There is a special scale to calculate the maltodextrin-ness of maltodextrin, the higher on the scale the shorter the glucose chains and the sweeter the maltodextrin becomes.
There is also a little bit on food regulation about it in the EU and in the us.
Oh it is used in "less fat" peanut butter, probably saving on cost, replacing expensive vegetable fats from peanuts with the cheapest kind of maltodextrin which suits the pupose. By making this move the savings are under the curve, with one line being the price per amount for peanut butter oil, the other being the price per amount for maltodextrin, the difference is henceforth the profit in the case of 'less-fat' peanut butter.

So here in this context we are talking about doritos. And in this case maltodextrin is used for mouth feel!

->to be moved to idea factory
#droping my tangent here, I was thinking about the displacement of young people from land to living in vehicules, those are external economic pressure propping this move. It is a willing voluntary act from the individual yet from a distant perspective is it is a loss of fat around the meat, a loss of ground an a general weakening of ones position, from a plant in the ground to a plant in a pot on a moving vehicule. This is a judgment on my part that this leads to a situation were the general survivability of the organism can be reduced.

Next up is MSG (monosodium glutamate)
one important note I wish to leave here is that glutamic acid is sometimes refered to as natural flavor.
So at least 60% of the article is dedicated to illustrate that msg is safe, the story of the dicovery and synthesis of msg from kombu in japan is great, he made salts of glutamate and found monosodium glutamate to have the most pleasant taste thus msg or ajinomoto (the essence of taste) was made. MSG is a motly hooted topic as since 2020 it is in the crosshairs of the race discussion. The discussion on such chemical however should not be linked to sociological issue at this time.
other interesting notes:
"Super salt" is a mixture of 9 parts salt, to one part MSG and 0.1 parts disodium inosinate and disodium guanylate.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not require disclosure of components and amounts of "natural flavor."

Whey concentrate:
This is a by product of comercial cheese production, it contains carbohydrates in the form of lactose. It is food stuff.

dextrose simply redirect to glucose:
The article to glucose is very complex for sure it is one of the most in depth scientific article about food stuff and from what I understand glucose seems to be one of the primary building blocks of food.

Sunset yellow fcf 'yellow 6', 'e110':
ok this shit is not gonna be pleasant. The whole gyst here is a study from the 70's linking yellow 6 to adhd in kids the study used yellow 6 and sodium benzoate in conjunction in liquid on children of the general population in the uk. They published their result in 2007 and it has since 2008 been sitting on the FDA's desk for evalution. The study found 'a possible link between the consumption of these artificial colours and a sodium benzoate preservative and increased hyperactivity', yet due to study limitation it can't be extrapolated to the general population thus was evaluated by the advisory commitee over at the FSA.
Another recuring theme is the alphabet soup, FDA-FSA-EFSA-UKFSA, anyway.
By precaution the EU has said to put a warning on packages yet the us is not budging. More data and studies are indeed required, where is the funding gonna come from ?!
Tartrazine, 'yellow 4', 'e102', 'color'
same study same finding same letter soup contention
Allura RED AC
''
the two last ingredients are part of our super salt disodium inosinate and disodium guanylate
"Super salt" is a mixture of 9 parts salt, to one part MSG and 0.1 parts disodium inosinate and disodium guanylate."
nothing super interesting on disodium inosinate same contention leading nowhere as we usually have.
Disodium guanylate however "is not safe for babies under twelve weeks, and should generally be avoided by asthmatics and people with gout"
as usual the amounts in food are considered too low to produce any significant side effects.

So the super salt seems to be a experimentally safe mixture not to abuse but enjoy.

Considering what it is Doritos seems to be a pretty balanced and safe product overall, in fact specifically devised as safe it is engineered not to kill you. This will be a recuring theme. The most dangereous about it and the reason you should definitely not eat it is the fact that doritos are corn chip fried in vegetable oil.
Instead let me suggest you to cook yourself some better chips using less toxic ways (purified butter, olive oil, coconut oil) and add some of the super salt on top for added umami awesomeness. Thus you'll avoid the bad source of carb that is corn chip and the easily oxidized cheap vegetable cooking oil, as well as, all the colorant. You end up with in your hand the power to choose which is your favorite cooking oil and what are your favorite carb source for chips, an adventure lies ahead in cooking land exploring the ways we can make stuff from primary ingredients !








