GPU : A Gpu is the graphic processor it process the graphic output of your pc. A graphic card serves as a complete unit responsible to display an image on your monitor. A graphic card is a bridge between a gpu, some gram (which is graphic ram) and a ton of controller, capacitor and other stuff… that’s the end of my current knowledge on Gpu (this is the good enough edition after all). All you need to know is: a Graphic card display the image on your screen, combining the power of a gpu (graphic processing unit) some GDDR Ram as well as other ‘stuff’. Renders frames you see.

CPU : A Cpu is a processor and does all the calculation done by your computer. It’s locating in a socket of variant shape and sizes. Some example of socket are lga 1155, lga 1151, lga 1150, flga1136. They are a feature of both the motherboard and the cpu. A cpu needs cooling to work properly for that purpose one must use a heatsink and thermal paste. The thermal paste is a compound assuring good thermal conduction between your CPU and the heatsink. The CPU generates the heat by doing some math, the heat is transmitted to a heatsink with the help of some thermal paste. Once trapped in the heatsink the heat is dissipated using a fan.
CPUs work differently depending on the brand. Here intel: Core and thread are really hard to discern from one another conceptually but are both important concept

A core : -- to write--			!!! RESEARCH NEEDED

A thread : --to write--		!!! RESEARCH NEEDED

GHz :  --to write--			!!! RESEARCH NEEDED

AMD’s CPU :  --to write--		!!! RESEARCH NEEDED

the Core speed x the Core Count equals the performance. Not all the CPUs are born equal, new ones are more optimized with new features and new architectures but you can expect a similar result from similar Core count x Ghz (Ghz is core speed it spellz Giga hertz and represent vibration or something) for general purpose the new standard is 4 core with at least 2.5 Ghz core speed. Anything that is that or better than that should be good enough for most things, except if your utilisation is Cpu intensive (your doing a lot of math).

RAM : Ram is virtual Memory it works like regular memory (More on that in HDD/SSD) but disappears when you shut the computer, it’s memory used for process. If you use photoshop for example the more ram your Computer has the more move you can keep in memory (in the RAM). Ram is used by all computer process from just your os being open to Multiple Programs on top of you os (Operating System). 
The more the better ?
No, all you need is enough for what you use. Some process require WAY more RAM then others, like rendering. Usually 8Gb is the standard for normal usage, if you multitask and use multiple programs at once or simply do some video editing whilst listening to the youtube, you’ll need 16 Gb if you’re a tab fiend (So you never close anything programs or tabs) or if you do a lot of multitasking you’ll need 32 Gb. Basically you’ll start experiencing discomfort due to Ram being full at aprox. 80% of your total Ram being in use. So if you have 16Gb your max usage will be 12.8 Gb. The max ram you can have is Motherboard specific so check that on your Motherboard manual online or elsewhere, for that you’ll need the motherboard serial number which you can find in system info on your computer.
So what about DDR3 vs DDR4 ? 
DDR3 is current Good enough and the New shiny thing is DDR4, those are both RAM architecture and are Motherboard specific. Ram also has speed but this has been shown many times as having little impact on actual performance. Ram speed is in Mhz.

PSU : every Component in your pc Use power, the two parts which use most power is your CPU and more then anything your GPU, often you can find the Wattage rating you need on the GPU manufacturer Website under minimum power requirement. Psu Rating is also an important concept, it starts at 80+ and goes to bronze, silver, gold and platinum rating. Those rating guarantee 80% of the max power as continuous power. Which means you’ll never dip below 80% of the Max Value advertised. So if you have a power supply advertised as being 500W and it has a 80+ guarantee this means you’ll never dip below 400W. You want 80% of the max to be more than the minimum power requirement of you GPU (as written on the website)

A PSU has a lot of different cables,  here is a breakdown of the most often seen option:
1		4(+4) pin for the CPU 
1 or 2		6(+2) pin for the GPU
1		20(+4)pin for the motherboard
Molex connectors (which are 4 cables one yellow, black, black, red)
And Sata Cables (for ssd,hdd, and optical drive)

Molex Connectors have adapter which you can use to add fan outlet or even a 6 pin for your GPU 

Troubleshooting trick:  --to write--		!!! RESEARCH NEEDED

Note: installation of psu cable is baby proof since the cables and port have a shape, just don’t force too much (max 40 Newton ^^).


HDD : a hard drive is what stores your data. It’s composed of a disc spinning and an arm that does the data reading. 
Buyer’s beware: there’s only two types of people those who have a backup and those who wish they had one before losing everything.
Data stored in the HDD can often still be recovered after it’s death since those data are stored on the physical disc inside (This is beyond the scope of this good enough guide tho). HDD is slow memory it travels through a sata cable and is limited by it’s own spinning speed as well as the sata cable and port speed. (but mostly limited to the speed of the disc spinning)



SSD : An ssd acts like an HDD in your pc, yet it’s 20 times facter. It doesn’t rely on a spinning disc and if a SSD breaks you lose the data since it was only stored on memory ship (opposed to a spinning disc in the case of an hard drive). SSD cost a lot more by GB of storage. SSD is fast Memory only limited to the sata cable and port speed

Fast memory is used for OS and programs. 
Slow memory is used for documents and file which aren’t in use everyday.

Optical drive: Optical Drives permit the use of CD and DVD sometimes blueray and can usually also burn copies.


Motherboard : A motherboard Act like a bridge between the different parts of a computer, it’s what does the communication between everything. The motherboard is the source of most failure and restrictions. Also the cause of most incompatibility. Modern Motherboard are composed of DDR(3 or 4) slot a CPU socket, Pci-e Slots, Pci-e minislot(e stands for express), PCI slot, Connector pins and fan headers.
The DDR slot is for the Ram it is motherboard specific
The CPU socket is for the CPU it is motherboard specific
Pci-e slots are for Graphic card mainly, as well as extension cards which serves the purpose of adding functionality to the Motherboard like Wifi capability, Audio Card or even USB 3.0 ports. 
PCI is for old expansion Cards .
Sata ports are for connecting HDD, SSD and optical drives 
All the pins are for your case option: Power on button, Reset Button, speaker, usb 2.0 and 3.0 port as well as any other option on your board.
The fan headers are for adding fans, 3 pins doesn’t allow for fan control and 4 pins does. The CPU fan must always be connected to the fan header called CPU_fan.

Case : the computer case just hold the parts and add some feature. One could have a computer running without a case.

Peripherals : Mouse, Keyboard, Monitor, Headset are called peripherals and aren’t part of the computer as itself but are used to interface with it.

