(Flowchart of how to troubleshoot)
(Psu: on; Ram: 1 stick; Gpu: Working)

Not posting -> Go down to one stick of ram which you know works, use a gpu you know works, if you have onboard graphic (graphic generated by you cpu, the video port on your motherboard is usually onboard graphic) you can use that.
Psu testing  : connecting the two right pins with a paper clip.


Ok that’s all good it’s all plugged but it’s not showing an image now what?

Computer troubleshooting is a many faceted problem, anything could be the cause of a Computer problem any of it’s currently connected parts can cause the problem.
What does Post means ?
Post is simply the Bios image it’s anything before you enter the OS if it shows you the motherboard post your on a very good path to your computer working !

The Barebone Approach to troubleshooting:
Troubleshooting is the process by which we figure out exactly what is creating the problem. Since we’re out of trouble once the computer post for the most part let’s figure out a protocol for when it doesn’t post. So first we need to get the computer out of it’s case, you see the case can cause interference with the motherboard taking the computer out is the only way to rule that out it also makes the rest of the troubleshooting process easier. That’s also the reason why a computer should first be built outside of it’s case to insure it post first. Ok so now that it is done, we should have those parts left: CPU,GPU heatsink, CPU fan, Power Supply, RAM, HDD, SSD, Optical drive and any extension card. Let’s remove every part not needed for the computer to post, so HDD,SSD, extension card, Optical drive, all fans but the CPU_fan and all the Ram sticks but one. We now are left with the minimum parts required for a computer to post, Motherboard, CPU, CPU cooling, GPU, PSU, and of stick of RAM. if you’re at this point in the process and your computer is still not posting that means one of those component is causing your problem. If the computer doesn’t boot at all, the fan doesn’t spin nor anything it’s probably the PSU so let’s test that, you’ll need a paper clip in conductive metal. Be sure the psu switch is off. Let’s disconnect the 20(+4) pins cable. 
             ++
+-----------------+
|**.  .********|
|************|
+-----------------+
This is a very bad diagram of it, connect the pin 3-4 using the paperclip, the top row should be the one with the plastic clip used to secure the cable to the motherboard 24 pin power port. Just plug the power supply and turn it on in should start spinning on it’s own and provide power to everything it’s plugged to, if the fan spins it work ! if not dead power supply. Ok so if you’re still here the psu is not the problem. Left is: CPU, CPU cooler, GPU, RAM, Motherboard. The easiest to rule out now is the cpu cooler, reinstall it with minimum pressure it’s rarely the problem but we need to rule that out also make sure the fan is connected to the CPU_fan header since some Motherboard can’t boot if the CPU_ fan header isn’t connected. Left are: CPU, GPU, Ram and Motherboard. If you got another working computer go fetch a GPU and RAM which you know for sure works that will eliminate all but the motherboard and CPU, if this option isn’t available to you. You can try cleaning the RAM/GPU connectors (the gold pins) with some butane or isopropyl alcohol any thinner works and yes this does really work if it’s still not posting then you’re out of options game over as they say. You’ll not get this computer running today that’s for sure you’ll need to go get some cheap RAM and Graphic card which you know works for sure to get to the Next step. Ram should be kept at one stick for the troubleshooting process and you should try every stick you get in every port since those could cause your issue. if all is done and the computer is still not working you got only two parts left, CPU and Motherboard and there is no way of telling which is causing the problem at this point. CPU are usually tough so the problem should be the motherboard but there’s no way to be sure. if you got another Motherboard of the same socket you can rule out the cpu and if you got a cpu of the same socket you could rule out the Motherboard or confirm that it’s what broke. The Motherboard is probably the most fragile part in your computer. If you’re at that step you can assume it’s the Motherboard and use the warranty to get a new one. 
The chance of a dead CPU is so slim. I’ve never seen one. Hopefully you can figure out what’s causing the problem and finally see that oh so sweet post screen, if it post you’re out of the trouble … for the most part :) .

Some Options you can add on a standard computer are:
Wifi (usb 2.0/3.0,pci/pcie/pcie mini/m.2)
Bluetooth  (usb 2.0/3.0,pci/pcie/pcie mini/m.2)
SSD  (sata,usb 2.0/3.0,pci/pcie/pcie mini/m.2)
USB (usb 2.0/3.0,pci/pcie/pcie mini/m.2)
SoundCard  (usb 2.0/3.0,pci/pcie/pcie mini)

if it works for what you’re doing it’s good enough

Building a pc with a purpose to build a pc you first need to figure out the purpose. Different purpose require totally different kind of hardware there’s a ton of different need someone could have for one:
    1. Non-gamer browsing social media and Youtube
    2. Light gamer with some multitasking
    3. Heavy gamer heavy multitasking
    4. video editing and data computing

    1. 4-8Gb Ram	Basic GPU (50$)
2-4 core
    2. 8Gb Ram	Basic Gaming GPU (100$)
	light 4 core
    3. 16-32Gb Ram	Good GPU (300$)
heavy 4 core
    4. 16-32 GB Ram	Rendering GPU (a lot)
if you need data computing capability the more processors the better (like multiple processors) if you’re editing get a good i7 you should be fine for the most part

Processor, computes, does the computation
Ram, stores data for use by program
Memory, stores data for later use
GPU, display an image to the monitor it calculates every pixels of every frame
Motherboard, serves as a bridge between the parts and allow communication
Case, protect the whole in a box, add accessories, features and style
SDD, like normal memory but faster, also more expensive
PSU, provides the right power, unless you really know what you’re doing don’t buy anything else than a minimum 80+ rating

Things you can get away with (non-exhaustive)
touching a component with your fingers
putting not enough thermal paste
plugging cable in the wrong holes (impossible for the most part)

Things you cannot get away with (non-exhaustive)
using more than 40 Newton of force when putting a cable backwards in an hard drive whilst the computer is on

Just don’t get cocky
