from post: https://www.facebook.com/ik.achak.5/posts/10158995255003721

Tax his land, Tax his bed, Tax the table,
At which he's fed.
 Tax his tractor, Tax his mule, Teach him taxes
Are the rule.
 Tax his work, Tax his pay, He works for peanuts anyway!
 Tax his cow, Tax his goat, Tax his pants,
Tax his coat.
 Tax his ties, Tax his shirt, Tax his work,
Tax his dirt.
 Tax his tobacco, Tax his drink, Tax him if he
Tries to think.
 Tax his cigars, Tax his beers, If he cries Tax his tears.
 Tax his car, Tax his gas, Find other ways
To tax his ass.
 Tax all he has Then let him know
That you won't be done Till he has no dough.
 When he screams and hollers; Then tax him some more, Tax him till He's good and sore.
 Then tax his coffin, Tax his grave, Tax the sod in Which he's laid...
 Put these words Upon his tomb, Taxes drove me to my doom...'
 When he's gone, Do not relax, Its time to apply The inheritance tax.
 Accounts Receivable Tax
Building Permit Tax
CDL license Tax
Cigarette Tax
Corporate Income Tax
Dog License Tax
Excise Taxes
Federal Income Tax
Federal Unemployment Tax (FUTA)
Fishing License Tax
Food License Tax
Fuel Permit Tax
Gasoline Tax (currently 44.75 cents per gallon)
Gross Receipts Tax
Hunting License Tax
Inheritance Tax
Inventory Tax
IRS Interest Charges IRS Penalties (tax on top of tax)
Liquor Tax
Luxury Taxes
Marriage License Tax
Medicare Tax
Personal Property Tax
Property Tax
Real Estate Tax
Service Charge Tax
Social Security Tax
Road Usage Tax
Recreational Vehicle Tax
Sales Tax
School Tax
State Income Tax
State Unemployment Tax (SUTA)
Telephone Federal Excise Tax
Telephone Federal Universal Service Fee Tax
Telephone Federal, State and Local Surcharge Taxes
Telephone Minimum Usage Surcharge Tax
Telephone Recurring and Nonrecurring Charges Tax
Telephone State and Local Tax
Telephone Usage Charge Tax
Utility Taxes
Vehicle License Registration Tax
Vehicle Sales Tax
Watercraft Registration Tax
Well Permit Tax
Workers Compensation Tax
 STILL THINK THIS IS FUNNY?
Not one of these taxes existed 100 years ago, & our nation was the most prosperous in the world.
We had absolutely no national debt, had the largest middle class in the world, and Mom stayed home to raise the kids.
 What in the heck happened? Can you spell 'politicians?'
This is for USA 
Canada is not far behind.
It os more or less everywhere inn the world.anyway western countries
6 commentaires
Benjamin Moravec
Maybe this is what happens happens when public companies are privatized?
Répondre1 j
Jean Merlier
taxes is what happens ?
Répondre4 min


Shawna Ray
Can you spell MONEY ADDICTION. It's a disease. This proves it.
Répondre1 j
Ik Achak
Shawna Ray ahah .and tax are created out of THIN AIR
Répondre1 j
Jean Merlier
Shawna Ray You're so addicted to money you won't give it to me eh. Not be willing to relinquish the money you've earn for services you wouldn't use is not an addiction nor a disease. -> It has become so hard to simply go to the doctor, or a pharmacy, or school that tbh I think that it is time to have a serious adult discussion about our unreasonable spending.
Répondre1 min
Jean Merlier
Money is potential energy and we are giving up that potential energy for air and entitled lazy people in bureaucrat seats. But trust me this time you'll pay and things will improve, you just have to pay ??.
Répondre1 min




