ok so basically here is the gyst of it: queu clip of SFO speaking about not having kids

That position bothers me.
Here is a fractal of explanation:
You can't, over time, have it all without having kids. Kids would, in that long therm view, be the ultimate version of "having it".
Let me expand unto this point, on the long therm entropy wins and everything decays, in fact that second law of thermodynamics basically garantee it. The energy of any closed system tends to reduce over time. Thus we are mortal, this is also the point of some branch of budhist aestetism, humans are a conpounding system, any compounding system have a end, thus humans have a end. Those I believe, are three sacred truth in *source*.
So now we painted this frame and in this frame et evolve, we are born we are grown we become. Here SFO would be in the becoming phase. After it we bear fruit, than we slowly wither and become dust. Part of becoming here is bearing fruit. Here bearing fruit can be construed in many faschion, we can jump unto the having kids, but that wasn't what I was thinking, in fact bearing fruit abstracted out can become the fruits of one's labour. And thus a tree without progeny can bear fruit. 
Ok not trying to be to much of a pretzel here let's zoom out a bit.

In this context we evolve, what is this 'we' here. That is the question here.

Nonetheless let me proceed, that 'we' is in fact benefited by you having children.
Strange isn't it. Let's say you are part of a 3 children family, they both have kids, in that context you having kids is still in fact benefiting this 'we'. You are also part of this 'we' in a smaller part you are in fact benefited by having kids, by their presence in the world.
Bringing someone into this world is in fact an act of love, and since I love other I work for them. Thus love would be in great part selfless and unegoist. In fact death is egoism personified, let me quote Helbert Hubbard here *queu the quote*.

In this frame tending toward egoism is death whislt tending toward working for others for love, is life.
Thus by not having kids you can't reach 'it all'. This would be described in a saints life, where working for others for eternity brought them to this 'all'. 
 